# Rest service template for CSI code review assignment

Rest service template for the code review assignment of the Information Systems Quality course - GEI - UDC.

The template uses Spring Boot.

The template includes a simple entity and a controller. It also includes some sample test for the controller. The list of test is not comprehensive and should not be considered good enough for a real application.

Requirements:

- Java 17

## Compiling, testing, packaging and running the application

The application comes with a provided maven-wrapper. A local installation of Apache Maven can be used instead, but is not mandatory. The rest of the document uses a local installation of maven for brevity. To used the provided maven-wrapper substitute the call to the `mvn` command with `mvnw.cmd` in Windows and `./mvnw` in Mac and Linux.

The application can be compiled, the tests can be run and the application can be packaged using the standard maven phases

To compile:

```
mvn compile
```

To run the test:

```
mvn test
```

To package the application:

```
mvn package
```

The packaged application is configured by the spring boot plugin to include all the necessary dependencies and can be run as a standalone application (substituting GROUP and VERSION for the appropriate values):

```
java -jar target/base-rest-GROUP-VERSION.jar
```

The Spring Boot Maven plugin can also be used to launch the application without the need for packaging it:

```
mvn spring-boot:run
```

## Configuring the database

The template default configuration uses an in-memory H2 database, whose contents will be lost when the application closes. The project also has a profile to use an H2 database backed by a file in the hard drive. To use this profile we have to switch it in the maven command line:

```
mvn -P h2-disk spring-boot:run
```

The same can be done when packaging the application:

```
mvn -P h2-disk package
```

The location of the database file can be configured in the `application-persistence-h2-disk.properties` file in the `src/main/resources` folder

## More info

The template includes [HELP.md](HELP.md), a file generated by the Spring Initializer with some useful links to Spring documentation

## Template credits

- Alfonso Landín
- Javier Parapar
- Anxo Pérez
